Operator dependency resolution enhancement (#7)
operator-framework/enhancements: enhancements/operator-dependency-resolution.md

#### Provided APIs

The two default types of provided APIs (operator name + version and CRD GVK) will be inferred just by the registry parsing the manifests provided in the bundle. However, we acknowledge that in the future there may be additional APIs provided by operators that are not as easily discoverable.

There are cases when the operators provide/own certain APIs that are important to consider during dependency resolution in order to allow the operator to work properly. This information needs to be declared in the bundle so it can be queried later.

That being said, these additional types will need to be implemented as they become more clear. For now, `dependencies.yaml` will not include any explicit reference to provided APIs.

### Cluster Admin UX

> Given the changes to the way OLM will resolve dependencies, it is also necessary to push more detailed data to cluster administrators about what dependencies were installed (or will be installed) and why. To that end, we will continue to use the InstallPlan status to push detailed resolution information to the user. This will include data about what dependencies were installed along with information about where child dependencies came from (essentially, the result of the resolver in detail).

Reviewer: in CNV we have a kind of meta-operator called hyperconverged cluster operator.
Now we are shipping all the depends operator with a single CSV, the user will only subscribe once to the hyperconverged cluster operator and OLM will deploy all the operators; as soon as the user will create a CR for the hyperconverged operator, that one will create CRs for all the dependent operators.
Because the user is not supposed to directly instantiate dependent operators, we are now hiding them CRDs with `operators.operatorframework.io/internal-objects` annotation.
Can we do something like that (depend on something that is not really that user visible) using this new dependency mechanism?

Than we also need to have CNV as a singleton in the cluster and this is true also for the dependent operators.
Is there a way to enforce this at dependency level?

#### Explicit Operator Dependency Metadata

As an operator author, I want to specify dependencies explicitly in the bundle. For example, I would like to specify that my operator depends on etcd operator version 0.9.0.
* Explicit operator dependency is natural, intuitive and safe to understand
* Avoid unexpected situation where two different operators owning the same CRD/API

Acceptance Criteria:
I can specify explicit dependencies in a file in the bundle and it can be included with other manifests and metadata in the bundle image.

Internal details:
Currently, the plan is to have `dependencies.yaml` as a centralized location for explicit dependency specification. However, we may plan to include that information in Dockerfile/manifest list so that information can be query without unpack the bundle image to see its content.

#### Explicit Operator Dependency Validation

As an operator author, I want to validate dependencies solution in the bundle. For example, I would like to make sure OLM will resolve and install all the dependencies I specify in the bundle correctly.
* Allow operator authors to test dependency resolution for their operators before publishing

Acceptance Criteria:

> I can use some toolings to list the operators that will be installed for my operator that will meet all of my dependency requirements that I specify in the bundle.

Reviewer 2: It would be also very nice to actually do that on cluster with all catalogs registered. An equivalent to `yum --dry-run`.

Author: I added a note in the Internal details to select this option.

The registry will parse the dependency information in `dependencies.yaml` and add to the database when the bundle is loaded into the registry. OLM will query the dependency information from the registry to facilitate the dependency resolution using sat solver.

### Syntax

The dependency list will contain a `type` field for each item to specify what kind of dependency this is. It can be a package type (`olm.package`) meaning this is a dependency for a specific operator. For `olm.package` type, the dependency information should include the `package` name and the `version` of the package in semver format. We use `blang/semver` library for semver parsing (https://github.com/blang/semver). For example, you can specify an exact version such as `0.5.2` or a range of version such as `>0.5.1` (https://github.com/blang/semver#ranges). In addition, the author can specify dependency that is similiar to existing CRD/API-based using proposed `crd` or `api` type and then specify GVK information as how it is done in CSV. This is a path to enable operator authors to consolidate all dependencies (API or explicit) to be in the same place.

> Moreover, for explicit operator dependency, a new field named `indexNamespace` is proposed to enable operator authors to choose a specific source where the operator is provided. This concept is similiar to choosing a specific CatalogSource. However, we choose not to include CatalogSource information in the bundle as that information is out of scope of a bundle. Operator authors shouldn't need to know about all CatalogSources that are available in the cluster as they may not be the same across different clusters. By using this `indexNamespace` type, we require changes in pipeline that build CatalogSources to add a new label `indexNamespace` that indicates the "index namespace" in term of provider where all of operators inside belong to. This `indexNamespace` constrain will allow OLM to pick the correct operator when the same operator is included in different CatalogSource.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need pipeline changes for this, do we?

We also discussed having `indexNamespace` set per package, maybe a discussion here of why that might be useful?

Author: My memory is falling me on this part a bit but I recall something related to pipeline about `indexNamespace` part. If we decide to specify this `indexNamespace` per package, I wonder where this label should be included. Should the label be included in the bundle hence the author will need to choose which indexNamespace it should be in?

I kind of envision pipeline would pack a bunch of operators in the same indexNamespace upon the choice of pipeline team. Does that make sense?

Reviewer 4: Didn't we have some discussion about concatenating namespaces?

i.e. a pipeline wants to build the "etcd" index which would have its own namespace. Then that gets merged into the "redhat-operators" index. Would the namespace just be overridden? Are they concatenated into a new namespace? Could it be a list of registered namespaces?

Author: I don't recall we had a convo about concatenating namespaces or maybe I just forgot it.

I want to argue that `indexNamespace` should be something that pipeline should care about as they build index image. It is essentially a way for them to group bundle together. I don't see the reason why authors need to specify `indexNamespace` for the bundles.

I think when you build an index image with an `indexNamespace` label, then it is immutable in that image unless you rebuild the image and change the label. I don't expect cluster-admin to update the label but instead build a new image with different label.

At the moment, I think it is possible to select dependencies if they are multiple choices in `InstallPlan` after dependency resolution. However, after a choice is made, we probably need to resolve it again to ensure we pick up other dependencies that the chosen operator may need. Would that be too much?

I simply see of there are two indexes with same `indexNamespace` then they are merged together as a single index with all operators inside under the same `indexNamespace` in the perspective of dependency resolution.

Here is an example of CatalogSource with `indexNamespace` label:

```
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: catsrc-test
spec:
  displayName: CatalogSource Test
  sourceType: grpc
  image: docker.io/test/catsrc-test:latest
  indexNamespace: io.redhat
```

An example of a `dependencies.yaml` that specifies Prometheus operator and etcd CRD dependencies:

```
dependencies:
  - type: olm.package
    indexNamespace: io.redhat
    name: prometheus
    version: >0.27.0

>   - type: crd

Reviewer 3: nit: `type: olm.gvk`?

    name: etcdclusters.etcd.database.coreos.com
    group: etcd.database.coreos.com
    kind: EtcdCluster
    version: v1beta2
```

#### Provided APIs

> The two default types of provided APIs (operator name + version and CRD GVK) will be implied just by the registry parsing the yaml provided in the bundle. However, we acknowledge that in the future there may be addition APIs provided by operators that are not as easily discoverable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The two default types of provided APIs (operator name + version and CRD GVK) will be inferred just by the registry parsing the manifests provided in the bundle. However, we acknowledge that in the future there may be additional APIs provided by operators that are not as easily discoverable.
```

> The two default types of provided APIs (operator name + version and CRD GVK) will be implied just by the registry parsing the yaml provided in the bundle. However, we acknowledge that in the future there may be addition APIs provided by operators that are not as easily discoverable.

Reviewer 3: Should this be something like, "there are two default ways dependencies can be satisfied"?

I just mean that name+version is not really a "provided api"

Author: I see. I wonder if you have any suggestion on how the syntax for provided APIs look like especially for Service Mesh (Istio) example that you mentioned in our meeting. Should it look like olm.gvk type but then I'm not sure who to specify a range of istio API with that?

Imported SAT solver selection constraints:
* Written in pure Go
* Large project with a healthy ecosystem, good documentation and recent commits
* Common interface that would be easy to replace if needed
* Open Source license

SAT solver needs to take in account several other constraints in order to resolve dependencies correctly. Here is the list of potential resolution constraints:
* InstallMode (OperatorGroup)
* Minimum Kubernetes version
* Native APIs
* OpenShift version (OpenShift only)

> After evaluating several libraries, we have chosen https://github.com/irifrance/gini as the SAT solver. This implementation of the solver is general, a popular library, and is written in pure go.

Reviewer 4: The main driver is that it's the only pure go solver library that seems remotely active and is being used by other projects. Our other options are basically:

https://github.com/mitchellh/go-sat -- last commit 3 years ago
https://github.com/crillab/gophersat -- this isn't really a library, it's an academic project used to solve SAT problems in DIMACS format. it technically has some lib functions, but they aren't documented and it's not the projects intended use. Seems like there's more recent active development though (this year)

This has interoperability with c: https://github.com/justinfx/pigosat
but it's basically just someone's pet project. Had a nice wrapper for dealing with version dependencies though: https://github.com/justinfx/pakr

And the only other solver I found that seemed somewhat reasonable is the one `dep` uses: https://github.com/golang/dep/tree/master/gps

But that thing is really tightly coupled with the way that dep does resolution so we would have to basically fork it and maintain it ourselves.

> After evaluating several libraries, we have chosen https://github.com/irifrance/gini as the SAT solver. This implementation of the solver is general, a popular library, and is written in pure go.

Reviewer 3: > But that thing is really tightly coupled with the way that dep does resolution so we would have to basically fork it and maintain it ourselves.

Writing or forking and maintaining our own solver may be a good way to get the best performance or properties (like really great error messages) long term. We should wrap whatever we do choose with a good interface that we can potentially swap in the future.

> After evaluating several libraries, we have chosen https://github.com/irifrance/gini as the SAT solver. This implementation of the solver is general, a popular library, and is written in pure go.

Reviewer 4: Yep, agreed. I think another good reason to use the library we chose is because its interface is really simple (basically, just list all the boolean constraints and then `solver.Solve()`). If we need to write our own solver the easiest part will certainly be replicating that interface.

#### Library

The resolver will be a library that can be imported not just by OLM and used at runtime. This will be a separate component that can be used to determine how OLM will resolve a dependency outside the scope of a running cluster if need be. As a result, we will create a separate git repository for the resolver and have OLM import it.

### Dependency Specification

The dependencies of an operator are listed as a list in `dependencies.yaml` file inside `/metadata` folder of a bundle. This file is optional and only used to specify explicit operator version dependencies at first. Eventually, operator authors can migrate the API-based dependencies into `dependencies.yaml` as well in the future. The ultimate goal is to have `dependencies.yaml` as a centralized metadata for operator dependencies and moving the dependency information away from CSV.

The registry will parse the dependency information in `dependencies.yaml` and add to the database when the bundle is loaded into the registry. OLM will query the dependency information from the registry to facilitate the dependency resolution using sat solver.

### Syntax

> The dependency list will contain a `type` field for each item to specify what kind of dependency this is. It can be a package type (`olm.package`) meaning this is a dependency for a specific operator. For `olm.package` type, the dependency information should include the `package` name and the `version` of the package in semver format. We use `blang/semver` library for semver parsing (https://github.com/blang/semver). For example, you can specify an exact version such as `0.5.2` or a range of version such as `>0.5.1` (https://github.com/blang/semver#ranges). In addition, the author can specify dependency that is similiar to existing CRD/API-based using proposed `olm.gvk` type and then specify GVK information as how it is done in CSV. This is a path to enable operator authors to consolidate all dependencies (API or explicit) to be in the same place.

Reviewer 3: After we do this initial pass, I think we'll do one of two things with channels:

1. Channels stay as they are today, and we implement your suggestion to allow specifying channels as part of your dependencies.
2. Things that people are using channels for today are replaced by other constraints specified by the author and given to the resolver (openshift version, supported operand version, single/multi namespace etc), and we remove channels entirely or we make them strictly for update speed (i.e. "stable" and "fast")

> The dependency list will contain a `type` field for each item to specify what kind of dependency this is. It can be a package type (`olm.package`) meaning this is a dependency for a specific operator. For `olm.package` type, the dependency information should include the `package` name and the `version` of the package in semver format. We use `blang/semver` library for semver parsing (https://github.com/blang/semver). For example, you can specify an exact version such as `0.5.2` or a range of version such as `>0.5.1` (https://github.com/blang/semver#ranges). In addition, the author can specify dependency that is similiar to existing CRD/API-based using proposed `olm.gvk` type and then specify GVK information as how it is done in CSV. This is a path to enable operator authors to consolidate all dependencies (API or explicit) to be in the same place.

Reviewer 5: IMO, having channel level control would complete this spec.  If OLM doesn't assume the default channel, I think it would improve the author's experience at no cost to the user because authors would have one less thing to worry about since the user can look through channels for their desired version.  In addition, I don't think assuming the default channel will work with y-stream, x-stream, version-stream type channels as dependencies.  If myApp depends on istio version <2.1, istio's default channel is 2.0 (y-stream channel), and an upgrade comes in for istio with the default channel now 2.1, I'll miss out on new z-stream versions. 

I'm curious about the timeline on the channel discussion.  Is it something that can be done in parallel to this spec? If not, I think it would it be worth adding channel level control until this is sorted.

> The dependency list will contain a `type` field for each item to specify what kind of dependency this is. It can be a package type (`olm.package`) meaning this is a dependency for a specific operator. For `olm.package` type, the dependency information should include the `package` name and the `version` of the package in semver format. We use `blang/semver` library for semver parsing (https://github.com/blang/semver). For example, you can specify an exact version such as `0.5.2` or a range of version such as `>0.5.1` (https://github.com/blang/semver#ranges). In addition, the author can specify dependency that is similiar to existing CRD/API-based using proposed `olm.gvk` type and then specify GVK information as how it is done in CSV. This is a path to enable operator authors to consolidate all dependencies (API or explicit) to be in the same place.

Reviewer 4: Hey Ryan,

I'm curious, why would defining the channel explicitly be necessary for the dependency? Is this because of the case where you have different package versions that share the same "version" currently?

To me, the purpose of a cluster admin selecting the channel should be equivalent to them saying "this is how frequently we want updates". That is definitely outside the scope of what an operator developer should care about. They should just care that "my thing only works on this set of versions" however that happens to be defined

> The dependency list will contain a `type` field for each item to specify what kind of dependency this is. It can be a package type (`olm.package`) meaning this is a dependency for a specific operator. For `olm.package` type, the dependency information should include the `package` name and the `version` of the package in semver format. We use `blang/semver` library for semver parsing (https://github.com/blang/semver). For example, you can specify an exact version such as `0.5.2` or a range of version such as `>0.5.1` (https://github.com/blang/semver#ranges). In addition, the author can specify dependency that is similiar to existing CRD/API-based using proposed `olm.gvk` type and then specify GVK information as how it is done in CSV. This is a path to enable operator authors to consolidate all dependencies (API or explicit) to be in the same place.

Reviewer 5: Hey Kevin,

> I'm curious, why would defining the channel explicitly be necessary for the dependency? 
>
With version-streamed dependencies, the versions are built into the channel name.  So when additional channels come around with newer versions, the defaultChannel name changes, changing the pool of available versions for OLM to pick from.  That can cause irregular behavior during upgrade.

> Is this because of the case where you have different package versions that share the same "version" currently?
>
I'm not sure where to check package version.  Is that the name of the CSV used in the package?  If that's the case,  no, the version is included in the name's string so it's always different.

> the purpose of a cluster admin selecting the channel should be equivalent to them saying "this is how frequently we want updates"
>
I guess I have a different expectation when communication channel types.  Something like stable to me would be "I'm getting ga releases".  While something like 2.0 would be "I'm getting all z-streams for version 2.0".

> The dependency list will contain a `type` field for each item to specify what kind of dependency this is. It can be a package type (`olm.package`) meaning this is a dependency for a specific operator. For `olm.package` type, the dependency information should include the `package` name and the `version` of the package in semver format. We use `blang/semver` library for semver parsing (https://github.com/blang/semver). For example, you can specify an exact version such as `0.5.2` or a range of version such as `>0.5.1` (https://github.com/blang/semver#ranges). In addition, the author can specify dependency that is similiar to existing CRD/API-based using proposed `olm.gvk` type and then specify GVK information as how it is done in CSV. This is a path to enable operator authors to consolidate all dependencies (API or explicit) to be in the same place.

Reviewer 4: > With version-streamed dependencies, the versions are built into the channel name. So when additional channels come around with newer versions, the defaultChannel name changes, changing the pool of available versions for OLM to pick from. That can cause irregular behavior during upgrade.

So I guess what I'm saying is that we shouldn't do this. It's kind of abusing the channel concept because of a lack of other available features to do it with. The index images solve this problem for us, because there will just be a separate curated content set (a different index) to tie operator bundle versions to orthogonal software release cycles

> I'm not sure where to check package version. Is that the name of the CSV used in the package? If that's the case, no, the version is included in the name's string so it's always different.

Part of the problem is that this dependency resolution enhancement is making the assumption that a semantic version is tied to a particular operator bundle. See: https://github.com/operator-framework/enhancements/blob/master/enhancements/implicit-catalog-versioning.md If the operator bundle's version (and not the CSV) is used to define a dependency then they can be defined uniquely without the need to define a channel at all. Selecting the default channel for an update stream becomes totally divorced in concept at that point.

> I guess I have a different expectation when communication channel types. Something like stable to me would be "I'm getting ga releases". While something like 2.0 would be "I'm getting all z-streams for version 2.0".

I agree with this. Technically it is possible to define this on your operator bundle right now if you craft the channels the right way, but it's not obvious to all users how to do it. I think making changes to the way channels are defined (as Evan discussed above) is something we want to do in the future to make it more obvious or implicit, but to me it's outside the scope of the dependency resolver specifically.

> The dependency list will contain a `type` field for each item to specify what kind of dependency this is. It can be a package type (`olm.package`) meaning this is a dependency for a specific operator. For `olm.package` type, the dependency information should include the `package` name and the `version` of the package in semver format. We use `blang/semver` library for semver parsing (https://github.com/blang/semver). For example, you can specify an exact version such as `0.5.2` or a range of version such as `>0.5.1` (https://github.com/blang/semver#ranges). In addition, the author can specify dependency that is similiar to existing CRD/API-based using proposed `olm.gvk` type and then specify GVK information as how it is done in CSV. This is a path to enable operator authors to consolidate all dependencies (API or explicit) to be in the same place.

Reviewer 5: > Part of the problem is that this dependency resolution enhancement is making the assumption that a semantic version is tied to a particular operator bundle
>
I see the disconnect, I haven't made the jump to index images yet, so my assumption was different.  After doing some catch up, I think we're on the same page -- channels aren't what they were previously.

> Moreover, for explicit operator dependency, a new field named `indexNamespace` is proposed to enable operator authors to choose a specific source where the operator is provided. This concept is similiar to choosing a specific CatalogSource. However, we choose not to include CatalogSource information in the bundle as that information is out of scope of a bundle. Operator authors shouldn't need to know about all CatalogSources that are available in the cluster as they may not be the same across different clusters. By using this `indexNamespace` type, we require changes in pipeline that build CatalogSources to add a new label `indexNamespace` that indicates the "index namespace" in term of provider where all of operators inside belong to. This `indexNamespace` constrain will allow OLM to pick the correct operator when the same operator is included in different CatalogSource.

Reviewer 6: I would expect the `indexNamespace` to be an attribute of an index image, and surfaced in the status. Are there reasons for/against this?

Reviewer 4: I think it is, but where does the value come from? It seems like it would need to be passed in as a parameter as part of building the index

Reviewer 6: I agree -- the only index builds at runtime are for appregistry catalogs though, is that something we need this to support?

Here is an example of CatalogSource with `indexNamespace` label:

```
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: catsrc-test
spec:
  displayName: CatalogSource Test
  sourceType: grpc
  image: docker.io/test/catsrc-test:latest
  indexNamespace: io.redhat
```

An example of a `dependencies.yaml` that specifies Prometheus operator and etcd CRD dependencies:

```

> dependencies:

Reviewer 4: The two defined below are the only options. In the future, it can be expanded though.

> dependencies:

Author: As Kevin mentioned, there are two initial types `olm.package` and `olm.gvk` which are mentioned in the paragraph. There is potential to expand the list depending on what kind of format/dependency-type that we may support in the future.

There are cases when the operators provide/own certain APIs that are important to consider during dependency resolution in order to allow the operator to work properly. This information needs to be declared in the bundle so it can be queried later. The proposed syntax for provided APIs in `dependencies.yaml`:
```
provided:
  - type: istio
    version: >1.14.0
```

That being said, these additional types will need to be implemented as they become more clear. For now, `dependencies.yaml` will not include any explicit reference to provided APIs.

### Cluster Admin UX

Given the changes to the way OLM will resolve dependencies, it is also necessary to push more detailed data to cluster administrators about what dependencies were installed (or will be installed) and why. To that end, we will continue to use the InstallPlan status to push detailed resolution information to the user. This will include data about what dependencies were installed along with information about where child dependencies came from (essentially, the result of the resolver in detail).

> There was also some initial discussion around what the user workflow would be to edit/override dependencies. Given the current state of the APIs that exist (specifically the Subscription and InstallPlan APIs), those would require extensive changes to create a trivial override for dependencies. Even then, there is a configurability problem where a single install overriding a dependency may not enough and a cluster admin may want to create a cluster wide or namespaced override that is persistent and editable. Initially, there was some discussion about the possibility of a dependency Override API or the possibility of using the Operator API for this purpose, but those discussions are ultimately outside the scope of the immediate (3+ month) timeframe and scope of this enhancement proposal, and will be taken up further in the future.

Reviewer 4: I think attempting to model anything more than an option that says "ignore dependencies" is going to result in a lot of complexity and edge cases that we just don't have the APIs to handle right now. I do think that having a field on the Subscription that just lets you opt out of *all* dependency resolution would be reasonable for now though.

> There was also some initial discussion around what the user workflow would be to edit/override dependencies. Given the current state of the APIs that exist (specifically the Subscription and InstallPlan APIs), those would require extensive changes to create a trivial override for dependencies. Even then, there is a configurability problem where a single install overriding a dependency may not enough and a cluster admin may want to create a cluster wide or namespaced override that is persistent and editable. Initially, there was some discussion about the possibility of a dependency Override API or the possibility of using the Operator API for this purpose, but those discussions are ultimately outside the scope of the immediate (3+ month) timeframe and scope of this enhancement proposal, and will be taken up further in the future.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
There was also some initial discussion around what the user workflow would be to edit/override dependencies. Given the current state of the APIs that exist (specifically the Subscription and InstallPlan APIs), those would require extensive changes to create a trivial override for dependencies. Even then, there is a configurability problem where a single install overriding a dependency may not be enough and a cluster admin may want to create a cluster wide or namespaced override that is persistent and editable. Initially, there was some discussion about the possibility of a dependency Override API or the possibility of using the Operator API for this purpose, but those discussions are ultimately outside the scope of the immediate (3+ month) timeframe and scope of this enhancement proposal, and will be taken up further in the future.
```

Reviewer 7: Missing `be` between `may not enough`

### User Stories

#### Explicit Operator Dependency Metadata

> As an operator author, I want to specify dependencies explicitly in the bundle. For example, I would like to specify that my operator depends on etcd operator version 0.9.0.

Reviewer 7: What happens if two catalogs exist that provide different operators with the same name/version? I assume the `indexNamespace` API is meant to solve this issue?

Author: Correct. `indexNamespace` is a way for OLM to resolve dependencies in deterministic way. This may be 4.6+ feature. For 4.5, we plan to do a CatalogSource weighting which essentially adds the order to CatalogSource so there is always a priority choice.

#### Explicit Operator Dependency Validation

As an operator author, I want to validate dependencies solution in the bundle. For example, I would like to make sure OLM will resolve and install all the dependencies I specify in the bundle correctly.
* Allow operator authors to test dependency resolution for their operators before publishing

Acceptance Criteria:
I can use some toolings to list the operators that will be installed for my operator that will meet all of my dependency requirements that I specify in the bundle.

Internal details:
The proposal sat solver (resolver) will be in a separate repository in operator-framework and it can be imported into operator-registry and `opm` can use the resolver to perform the dependency resolution that OLM will do. Then, operator author can utilize the `opm` binary for testing and validation.

#### Cluster Admin Dependency Observability

As a cluster admin, I want to see the list of dependencies that are going to be installed when I inspect an operator.
* Allow cluster admin to identify which operators that are going to be installed in order to satisfy the dependency requirement for a particular operator

Acceptance Criteria:

> The cluster admin can see the dependency list in InstallPlan in the UI.

Reviewer 5: Will this include nested dependencies? e.g MyApp depends on istio which depends on etcd

Reviewer 3: That's the plan

Internal details:
InstallPlan does contain a list of its components that it will install such as CSV, CRD and etc. In order to list operator dependency, it may require some changes in InstallPlan API to contain information about operator dependencies (an operator as a whole, not just operator components).

### Implementation Details

### Verify, Run and Test

#### Explicit Operator Dependency Metadata

The operator authors can specific explicit dependencies in `dependencies.yaml` in `/metadata` folder of bundle image.

```
$ tree test
test
├── manifests
│   ├── operator.crd.yaml
│   └── operator.v0.1.0.clusterserviceversion.yaml
└── metadata
    ├── dependencies.yaml
    └── annotations.yaml
```

Test cases will be added to registry test suit to ensure `dependencies.yaml` is formatted correctly and being added to bundle image during the build process.

#### Explicit Operator Dependency Validation

A separate repo will be the home of the resolver (sat solver) and a new CI/test suit will be added. Then, a new command will be added to `opm` binary that can resolve the dependencies of a given operator bundle and index by using the resolver library in the new repo.

```

> opm alpha resolve --images quay.io/test/test-operator:v0.0.1 --index quay.io/test/test-index:v0.0.1

Author: This is just a proposed command that I envision for how the command would theoretically look like. I don't see any issues with accepting more than one index. An index image is essentially a CatalogSource and there are often multiple CatalogSources in the cluster. So it makes sense to support multiple indexes/catsrc.

> opm alpha resolve --images quay.io/test/test-operator:v0.0.1 --index quay.io/test/test-index:v0.0.1

Reviewer 4: I think we may need to expand on this some more if we want it to be a useful feature. Since we take into account things like existing operator groups, what namespace each catalog is in, etc. Do we want users to be able to model all of that? Or should we just allow it in the context of a set of indexes with equal value? Or maybe even just a single index?

> opm alpha resolve --images quay.io/test/test-operator:v0.0.1 --index quay.io/test/test-index:v0.0.1

Author: We can certainly add more tags/inputs to add more constraints for dependency resolution to work properly. We already have `InstallModes` information in CSV for the input bundle and in the indexes. The only missing constraints here is the namespace that this operator is gonna be installed which is translated into the OperatorGroup in that namespace. We can let user to provide a list of OperatorGroup information that represents the list of namespaces. For namespace of CatalogSource/index, I think if users are gonna provide the index, we should assume that CatalogSource/index is accessible in that particular namespace/list-of-namespaces.

An example of a `dependencies.yaml` that specifies Prometheus operator and etcd CRD dependencies:

```
dependencies:
  - type: olm.package
    indexNamespace: io.redhat
    name: prometheus
    version: >0.27.0
  - type: olm.gvk
    name: etcdclusters.etcd.database.coreos.com
    group: etcd.database.coreos.com
    kind: EtcdCluster
    version: v1beta2
```

In order to provide a more deterministic dependency resolution, CatalogSource weighting is introduced as a method to order CatalogSource selection when there are multiple CatalogSource providing the same operators and/or APIs. This CatalogSource weighting is specified in CatalogSource and can be modified by cluster admin.

Here is an example of CatalogSource with specified weight:
```
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: catsrc-example
spec:
  displayName: CatalogSource Example
  sourceType: grpc
  image: quay.io/example/catsrc-example:latest

>   weight: 1

Reviewer 3: small implementation note, it probably makes sense to make the defaults something like `10`, `20`, `30` so that you can insert in between the default catalogs if you need to.
